most people imagine a black hole to be a
starving monster with a gravitational
pull
so strong that nothing including light
can escape it
as soon as something reaches the event
horizon aka the point of no return
there's no way back but then how about
information
quantum physics which describes how
everything in the world works
claims that nothing can destroy data but
if this
nothing includes black holes well then
we have a paradox
on our hands that's when stephen hawking
came up with a new idea
can it be that black holes don't have
event horizons
instead they may have apparent horizons
those can only trap stuff for some time
after that
matter or energy will escape but in a
different form
it means that black holes won't be able
to wipe information
just change it if this theory is true
and there's no event horizon then there
are no black holes as we know them
is there going to be a big crunch a big
rip or a big
freeze yeah i know where you can get a
big gulp
many astronomers agree that the universe
might end some 2.8 to 22 billion years
from now
if the universe is expanding and it is
it means
it was born from a much more compact
state like
rhode island and if it does have a
beginning it's likely to come to an
end too but scientists can't agree
on the way it'll happen one of the most
popular theories
is a big crunch not captain crime
once the growth of the universe slows
down to a crawl
the gravity will become the main force
it'll make the universe shrink
causing planets stars and galaxies to
collide with one another
it'll be the big bang in reverse with
everything collapsing in on
itself the moon is the closest planet
satellite to the sun since mercury and
venus
which are closer to the sun than earth
is don't have satellite
maybe they have cable with an average
diameter
of 2159 miles the moon is the fifth
largest satellite in the solar system
after jupiter satellites
ganymede callisto and low and saturn's
tighten
we can see solar eclipses pretty often
but moon eclipses only happen once every
several hundred years
the moon looks as if it were the same
size as the sun
the star is about 400 times bigger than
the satellite
but astonishingly it's also 400 times
farther from us that's why they seem to
be equal in dimensions
as viewed from the surface of the earth
although the moon seems really bright
its ability to reflect sunlight is three
times
less than that of earth that's why in
combined photos
they make the moon look brighter
artificially
it would take about three hundred
thousand moons to produce as much light
at night
as there is in the afternoon about 206
000 of them would have to be full the
moon is getting one and a half
inches farther away from earth every
year
at first it was about 14 000 miles from
earth
and now nearly 250 000 miles
in about 600 million years its visual
size from earth will be so small
that there will be no full solar
eclipses
if you're still around then leave me a
comment below
the moon causes high and low tides on
earth
the gravitational influence of the moon
has this effect on
oceans the highest tide can be seen at
full
or new moon there are huge temperature
fluctuations on the moon
close to the moon's equator the
temperature rises from minus 279 degrees
fahrenheit at night
to plus 260 degrees fahrenheit in the
afternoon
i think i dress in layers trash isn't
just a problem in earth's ocean cities
and forests
there is a thing called space junk which
is any human-made object that's been
left in space
and now serves no purpose there's also
natural debris from meteoroids and other
cosmic objects
there are currently over 500 000 pieces
of space debris
orbiting the earth at speeds high enough
to cause significant damage
if they were to collide with a
spacecraft or satellite
nasa does its best to track every single
object
to ensure that missions outside earth
can reach their destination safely
have you ever looked up at the night sky
and tried to count all the stars
yeah good luck our galaxy the milky way
not the candy bar the galaxy has about
100 billion stars
but other estimates put it at over 200
billion
since calculating the exact amount is an
almost
impossible task even for astronomers as
for the entire universe
there are at least a billion trillion
stars
that's a one with 21 zeros after it
for comparison that means there are more
stars in space
than there are grains of sand on all of
earth's beaches
when the planets in the solar system
were just starting to form
earth didn't have a moon for the longest
time it took a hundred million years for
our natural satellite to
appear there are several theories as to
how the moon came into existence
but the prevailing one is the fission
theory
is that where somebody went fishing
caught the moon on a hook and dragged it
over into earth's orbit
no i made that up the fission theory
proposes that the moon was formed when
an
object collided with earth sending
particles flying about
gravity pulled the particles together
and the moon was created
it eventually settled down onto earth's
elliptical plane
which is the path that the moon orbits
a trip to the nearest star apart from
the sun would take you
five million years on a commercial
airplane
that's what i call a long haul flight
it would take you about a hundred
thousand years to travel from one
end of our milky way galaxy to the other
at the speed of light
on a plane that's just too many zeros to
fit into a single screen
the sun can fit about a million earths
inside it
but there's a star called uy scooting
that's about 1700 times
larger than the sun almost everything in
space is connected with everything else
by gravity
star systems are part of galaxies
galaxies are part of clusters
and clusters are parts of super clusters
the largest known super cluster in the
universe is the hercules corona borealis
great wall
that's a name it's more than 10 billion
light years wide
mars has the largest natural formations
in the solar system
the mountain three times taller than
everest the canyon almost seven times
longer than the grand canyon
and the crater that could fit half the
amazon river across it
although the big bang theory is the most
viable one
researchers still find evidence against
it for example
one theory suggests there's an axis
around which the whole universe rotates
it's aptly named the axes of evil
there's a supermassive black hole at the
center of almost every major galaxy
including ours black holes can attract
not only stars and planets
but also other black holes eventually
merging and becoming one
with a much greater mass the spinning
movement and enormous gravity of black
holes
sometimes makes it throw jets of matter
into space
traveling at almost the speed of light
there's a thing called the great
attractor it's a gravitational anomaly
outside our galaxy that can't be seen
but is known to attract the milky way
and lots of other galaxies toward itself
the highest mountain in the solar system
is olympus mods on mars
it's three times as high as mount
everest the earth's highest mountain
above sea level
if you were standing on top of olympus
mons you wouldn't understand you were
standing on a mountain
its slopes would be hidden by the
planet's curvature
the moon's gravity is only 17 of the
earth's
if your weight was 100 pounds on our
home planet
you'd only weigh 17 pounds on the moon
you would be able to walk a distance
six times longer and carry a weight six
times heavier there
or just hire somebody from nasa to carry
it for you
though it's easier to walk on the moon
it's more dangerous too
an astronaut's foot in a heavy space
sinks into the moon's ground up to six
inches deep long distance jumps are
uncontrolled and dangerous
because the moon's surface is full of
deep craters
one of the things jupiter is famous for
is the great red spot
a giant spinning storm this phenomenon
used to be so gigantic
that it could fit two or even three
earths
but the spot is shrinking right now it
wouldn't fit more than
one earth if two pieces of the same kind
of metal
touch in space they bond and get
permanently stuck together
it doesn't happen on earth thanks to
water and air that keep pieces separate
the moon is not an ideal sphere it's
shaped more like an egg
because of the earth's gravity the base
of the egg shape points toward our
planet
normal visible matter for example
planets and stars
make up just five percent of the
universe the rest consists of
invisible dark energy that's 68 percent
and dark matter about 27 percent
it leaves us with 95 percent of space we
know
nothing about the mysterious kuiper belt
lies behind the orbit of neptune it's
filled with massive
icy objects the most curious thing about
this phenomenon
is its movement pattern the only
explanation astronomers have
neptune is hiding a ginormous planet
this hypothetical planet has already got
the name
planet nine all we have to do is wait
until its existence is confirmed
or not you won't be able to wear a hat
on venus
ever and just try to stand on your feet
the planet is insanely windy its upper
winds blow
50 times faster than the planet rotates
what's more these fierce winds never
stop and can get even
stronger with time wanna get away
you'll have to travel 11 billion miles
away from earth
before ever leaving the solar system
take your google maps with you
you probably heard of methane gas a
byproduct of natural processes
such as volcanic activity and cows
anyway this gas is not only a part of
the martian atmosphere
but also the thing that confuses
astronomers to no end
the thing is that the volume of methane
on mars keeps wavering
and scientists just can't figure out
where it might be coming from
can there be cows on mars as you may
remember
pluto used to be a planet but was
stripped of this title in 2006.
later it was reclassified as a dwarf
planet
gee make up your mind but the most
unexpected fact about this celestial
body
is that its diameter is smaller than
that of the us
see for yourself the greatest distance
across the country
from maine to northern california is
about 2 800 miles
as for pluto it's only 1473 miles across
in fact if you laid pluto right down in
the middle of the united states
it crushed the heck out of iowa kansas
and nebraska
bad idea the planet uranus or
uranus you can't win either way rotates
on its side
and astronomers have no idea why the
planet has chosen such an unusual
position
the culprits could be ancient
mega-powerful collisions
but so far it's just a theory by the way
this is the only planet laying on its
side
our sun is insanely massive want some
proof
well 99.86 percent of all the mass in
the solar system
is in the mass of the sun in particular
the hydrogen and helium it's made of
the remaining 0.14 percent is mostly the
mass of the solar system's
eight planets a light year is the unit
of distance covered by
light in a single year light moves a
little more than
186 000 miles per second
so one light year is almost 6 trillion
miles
which reminds me our milky way is 105
700 light years wide really trust me
there's a whole lot of water floating in
space astronomers discovered a huge
vapor cloud that's 140 trillion times
the mass of the earth's ocean water
but don't worry it's 12 billion light
years away
so we won't drown in that stuff anytime
soon
saturn's rings weren't discovered all at
once it happened gradually
and they were named alphabetically based
on the time scientists found them
they go like this d c b
a f g e which of course spells
dick bafke there's a giant red spot on
jupiter that's bigger than earth
astronomers confirmed that it's a
perpetual storm that has been going on
for centuries
color me weightless astronauts only wear
orange spacesuits during launch
landing or when they're in the spaceship
for survival and rescue purposes
their white suits are equipped
differently to help them survive in
outer space the closest neighbor to our
milky way
is the andromeda galaxy it's 2.5 million
light years away
and you can see it on a clear night with
an unaided eye
and by the way in a little more than 4
billion years
our galaxy will collide with the
andromeda galaxy
according to some predictions the
galaxies won't survive but
our solar system will place your bets
it takes 243 earth days for venus to
complete a rotation around its axis
but it takes 225 earth days for the
planet to orbit the sun
that means a day on venus is longer than
a year
now we always see the same side of the
moon no matter where we are on earth
that's because the moon rotates around
the earth at the same speed it rotates
around its own axis
outer space isn't a perfect vacuum it
contains not only stars and planets
but also clouds of interstellar dust
space plasma
and cosmic rays those are atom fragments
dashing from the outskirts of the solar
system
one phenomenon people should be worried
about while exploring space
is cold welding if two pieces of the
same kind of metal touch in space
they bond and get permanently stuck
together
it doesn't happen on earth since water
and air keep pieces separate
astronauts onboard the international
space station don't use their feet to
walk
they float around so in orbit the skin
on their feet becomes very soft
and starts to peel off that's why they
have to take their socks off very
carefully
otherwise skin cells will break free and
float around
in the almost weightless environment
earthquakes on the moon
or more correctly moonquakes aren't
something from science fiction
they don't occur as often as on our
planet and when they do
it happens closer to the center of the
satellite scientists think moonquakes
might be caused by the gravity of earth
and the sun
one of the moons of saturn rhea might
have a ring system
consisting of three narrow bands if
astronomers manage to confirm it
it'll be the first time people
discovered rings around a moon
hey that's nothing i've had rings around
my collar for years
normal visible matter for example
planets and stars
makes up just five percent of the
universe
the rest consists of invisible dark
energy that's 68
and dark matter about 27 percent
add it up and there's 95 percent of
space
we know nothing about in its darkest
areas
space is freezing cold minus 454 degrees
fahrenheit but try orbiting earth in the
sunlight
and you'll understand how scorching 250
degrees feel
that's one of the reasons astronaut
spacesuits are white
this color is the best to reflect the
heat from the sun
astronauts can stay on iss for so long
because the uppermost atmosphere
protects them from solar radiation
at the altitude above 310 miles there
are
radiation belts that have a destructive
impact on humans
and then if iss rises too high the
earth's gravity will become too weak to
hold it
and it will leave the earth's orbit
that's why those super guys have to
train hard on special zero gravity
simulators before they go into space
but there is zero gravity in open space
isn't there
you might ask or how would spaceships
manage to fly to the moon or other
planets
if a body is far enough from a space
object
say a spaceship flying to mars from
earth the gravity of the space object
will be
too small and their mutual attraction
will roughly balance each other
but no matter how far the bodies get
from each other
their mutual attraction never equals
zero
the earth falls down to the sun the same
way the iss
falls on earth but since its lateral
velocity is big enough
it's been doing this for five billion
years
but if planets and stars are stuck in
their orbits for billions of years due
to gravity
how come shooting stars appear in the
sky
what we take for shooting stars are just
small stones floating in space
and their orbit or our orbit makes us
run into each other when the objects
meet our planet
they bump into our atmosphere at a high
speed and squeeze the air in front of
them
the speed is so high that the air gets
super hot and starts shining when you
look at this from the ground
you don't see the shining gas and a
stone behind it
it just looks like stars the same as
others in the sky
are falling down on earth soon they go
out before they make it to the ground
since they are just hundreds of feet
away from us they seem to be the same
size as true stars that are thousands of
light years away
in science shooting stars are called
meteors
if parts of meteors do reach the earth's
surface they are called
meteorites super bright meteors are
called
fireballs hundreds of millions of
meteors appear in the atmosphere daily
their total weight can be thousands of
tons and about 100 tons of dust
particles
which are too small to be visible in the
atmosphere fall down on earth from space
daily
most of them just burn there without a
trace
about 700 million years ago i wasn't
around then
a mysterious event that occurred may
have turned venus
into the place it is now admittedly
astronomers can't see the surface of the
planet directly
because it's covered with dense layers
of thick clouds
but space missions that have been sent
to the hot planet found that venus is
peppered with
fire-breathing volcanoes massive
mountains
countless craters and gigantic lava
plains
the temperatures on the planet are so
incredibly high
that they could melt lead and the
atmospheric pressure is so immense
that it would instantly crush any living
being reckless enough to set foot on it
if that's not enough the atmosphere of
the planet is filled with noxious clouds
of sulfuric acid
which smells worse than rotten eggs
carbon dioxide
the main component of venus's atmosphere
along with the infamous sulfuric acid
creates a powerful greenhouse effect as
a result
the lower atmosphere and the surface of
the planet are some of the hottest
places in the whole solar system
but the newest scientific theory claims
that venus could have had a pleasant
stable climate for billions of years
before something went wrong astronomers
did
thorough research and built a model of a
virtualized venus-like world
this model demonstrated that for most of
its history
the hot planet had oceans with liquid
water
adequate temperatures and stable
tectonic plates
in fact the planet resembled earth as it
used to be at the beginning of its life
scientists suppose that this period of
earth-like development could have lasted
for more than 3
billion years so during that time
the planet was most likely covered with
oceans which were from
30 to 1 000 feet deep also
some water was locked in the soil of the
planet on top of that
venus had stable temperatures of 68 to
122 degrees fahrenheit
which you have to admit it were quite
pleasant
and not that different from the
temperatures on earth nowadays
so what i'm getting at is that for three
billion years
right until something irrevocable
happened 700 million years ago
venus could have been habitable